I need everybody to hear this. The
middle class will be in trouble.
>> Do you think it's our last chance to
build wealth?
>> It has the chance to create a hyper
micro wealth, but I think a lot of
people are going to check out of this
era.
>> This is Gary Vaynerchuk, serial
entrepreneur, best-selling author, and
early investor in Facebook, Twitter, and
Uber. He predicted TikTok, talking to
computers, and the creator economy
before anyone saw it coming. In an our
lifetime's most unpredictable moment, I
went straight to him for answers.
>> What would you do if you have a laptop
and AI?
>> I would build an app that's $5 to $50 a
month, make unlimited organic content,
and try
>> For me as a person in Silicon Valley, I
can totally see how Anthropic releases
new lines of code tomorrow and this
business is done. Why would I start if
it's already being automated?
>> Because everything you learn along the
way will set up your next thing. What
are you going to do? Lay down and cry?
I'm asking you.
I did it in Russia a deal.
I did it in Russia in Chicago. I was
like
I showed up. I didn't know.
And they went and I just battled and got
through it. It was pretty cool.
Pizza.
Crazy. So no sort of sale.
>> I actually want to talk about AI and
what's happening and you know, I've been
watching you for
8 years now. So I've been preparing for
this interview for 8 years and what I
noticed about you is that you're right
at so many things. I remember you
predicted TikTok and you're the reason I
started TikTok. I have 3 million
followers there cuz you were like you
need to start TikTok. When you're
looking at this AI era, do you think
it's our last chance to build wealth
right now?
>> That's a great question. You know, one
of the things I try to do is when I talk
about things publicly, I've spent a lot
of time thinking it through. And I've
seen indicators of actual human action
that shows me an insight to the earliest
of preview of something I think will be
at scale.
So that's why a lot of my predictions
have worked out. It's like when I talk
about our grandkids marrying AI robots,
well, it's already happening in Japan.
>> It is.
>> And so like to me, that's not a long
putt. That's just something that's
happening in a part of the world that
clearly to me is a human psychology and
so it's going to work. Your question's
interesting because
my intuition is
it has the chance to create a hyper
micro wealth, the fragmentation of, you
know, vibe coding and all this stuff and
the stuff we're already seeing, right?
Kids building out products very quickly
and having success. On the flip side,
you're also alluding to clearly the
super scalers, right? When you look at
what Meta and Microsoft and Google
like the biggest companies in China,
like you could see a winner takes all
scenario where 12 or 13 companies My gut
is that the economy and the consumer
behavior is so
large that yes, there'll be 25 companies
that take so much, right? You look at,
you know, Adobe and Salesforce and
ServiceNow and SaaS companies. I mean,
SaaS companies are clearly
coming out of an incredible 30-year run
and now walking into a potential
buzzsaw. You know, I saw a headline
yesterday, I don't know if it's true. I
mean, just, you know, I was busy
yesterday, but X, maybe it was Claude.
Claude just made gave everybody a
Bloomberg terminal for free. You know,
like those kind of headlines seem very
real to me. They seem really natural.
But it's almost like Meta or Anthropic
or or someone else is going to eat up
more Bloomberg and ServiceNow and
Salesforce. Like it's like the battle of
the Titans.
>> Yeah.
>> And then over here
on the scraps
well the scraps actually might be quite
big.
And it might be a social media like era
where all of us become literally all of
us become vibe coders like
just like I thought one of my great
predictions in 2008 was everybody would
have a social media account. When it did
not seem like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Is everyone going to have a mini app
that is monetizable
cuz they themselves were able to build
it not need a developer for 500,000?
I don't know. I think I so I
I I believe that the middle will be in
trouble and the middle might be a
VaynerMedia.
You know,
um
but I've a feeling the the the
separation of the middle class of
entrepreneurship and
could be real. The differences
the long tail could be quite at scale
maybe even then creating this middle
you know this middle class. I don't
know. If you put a gun to my head I
would say no it's not our last chance.
>> Okay, so we have a few years, right?
>> I think so and again let me take another
counter just to build on this the
conversation. If it is our last chance
and 79 companies make all the money
governments will get massively involved.
>> Yeah.
>> And like it may lead to a Nirvana like
you know back to where we come from and
where we're sitting.
Could extreme capitalism
mean a different version of socialism?
>> Right.
>> Coming back to the roots.
>> You know what I mean? Could a world
where there's only 100 companies that
make 80% of the money would they then be
forced to subsidize all the deplete
displaced workers? Do we live in a
three-day work week environment with the
other four days subsidized from the
companies that we work from? Do we have
more leisure? Do we get born to the arts
and family? And do we have side projects
that make these micro pennies? I don't
know.
>> So, what if tomorrow everything crashes
for you like VaynerMedia, you lose your
followers, so what would you do if you
have a laptop and AI?
>> If I lost my reputation and my personal
brand, but I kept my knowledge of how to
make content on social,
I would build an app that's $5 to $50 a
month and I would make unlimited organic
content on LinkedIn, Twitter, TikTok,
and try to get customers.
>> If you want to stay ahead in the AI era,
I bring you the people who see what's
coming next every week. Subscribe to
this channel so you don't miss it.
That's very interesting approach. I just
talked to Bill Gurley who's like a
legendary investor and he told me you
can't even imagine how many websites are
there that are just like passport photos
that charge you $6. And yes, AI can do
that, but because we're still so used to
going to a website and paying and
they're making tens of thousands of
dollars a month and we just don't
realize it. Cuz for me as a person in
Silicon Valley, right? I'm looking at
all the businesses and I'm like, okay, I
can totally see how Anthropic releases
new lines of code tomorrow and this
business is done.
>> That's not how consumers work.
He's right.
>> Exactly.
>> how it works. And in fact, I would argue
what I do for a living and what I'm
obsessed with actually explodes in this
next era. It's all going to be about
brand because you have to discover it.
There in 30 years by default somebody
will be like, oh, let me go to the main
AI thing and I don't need to, but there
is going to be a long period of time
here.
>> Yeah, so there's this long tail. We
still need to adjust. Whereas humans we
take some time to adjust to new reality.
So,
>> When you're a Silicon Valley girl and
you even know who Bill Gurley is,
you live in a different world than the
99.9%
of people on Earth who've never heard of
Bill.
>> And that's opportunity for everyone
who's listening.
>> Correct.
>> Because transitioning to that era
together with small companies, small
businesses, other people educating them.
I feel like there is a lot of potential
there.
>> When you layer what I've been obsessed
with about the last 20 years, which is
there is a advertising and brand
building ecosystem called social media
that does not cost you money.
And that's the point about AI apps. It
really doesn't cost you money anymore to
build something in the way that I grew
up. Um
but the fact that you can actually get
awareness, that you're one Tik Tok away
from having people know who you are and
building a platform, that's that's
intoxicating.
>> But do you have another worry? Talking
about social media, right? I see a lot
of AI content and we're getting flooded
with so much content. We're competing
more, but also another thing that I'm
always thinking about, what if this
social media platform, like why would
they pay human creators? Why would they
not just, you know, generate AI
creators? This is much more personalized
content, it's free and they don't have
to pay anyone.
>> Well, platforms don't pay people.
>> Well,
some of them do.
>> No, they really don't. Like, Meta
doesn't pay people, Tik Tok doesn't pay
people. Like, they don't pay people.
They they are an open vessel that people
go on and create for and then businesses
come and sit in between people that make
content and people that consume content
and then the businesses advertise on
there or go to a creator and do a brand
deal. Now, if you're saying, why would
L'Oreal go to you like they might today
versus someone that looks kind of like
you that they could even own like a
Mickey Mouse cuz
>> Exactly. And make 100 videos versus one.
>> to do that.
>> So, how do you
>> Now, right now there's stigma around
that and big companies are scared to go
too deep into AI cuz there's pushback.
But over next 5 to 10 years, they will.
Now, what they might use you for though
is you might be one of the 100 faces
they use, 99 of which they own the IP,
but you're going to be able to do this.
I think the rise of analog value is
going to be extraordinary.
So, we're sitting in this world right
now where people are a lot of people
behind the scenes doing stuff. I think,
you know, for me, and I think you know
this about me, I'm I'm comfortable and
good in both environments, both behind
in with my thumbs and right here.
That person's going to do incredibly
well. The person that's very comfortable
with analog, hosting a conference,
having 25 people in this room right now
while we do this,
right? Brands are going to find
incredible value in the analog world,
real life. Restaurants, real life studio
podcasts, like real life is going to
explode. We're going to live in this
barbell world, extreme technology, but
extremely scaled. What we take for
advantage us for is like that's normal,
like being outside, like a pop-up shop,
you know, going to a sporting event,
they're going to continue to increase in
value.
And so, yeah, you're going to be like
the game's going to change, but I remind
influencers influencers are crying to me
quite a bit right now.
Like, Gary, I I did it. I'm like, you
took money from real celebrities.
20 years ago, none of us existed, and
all of that money went to Jennifer
Aniston. If you were on Shark Tank, you
were the only business people. I I, Gary
Vee, do not have a television show. I
get comped speaking fees and appearance
fees greater than most of the sharks.
Right? That would have never been
possible.
So,
the world turns, [__] changes.
>> Which is good to comfortable in our
space.
>> Well, what's funny is when we're young
and we're disrupting something, we like
it.
But when we're the one that gets
disrupted, we don't like it.
>> Yeah. How are you adjusting your social
media strategy?
>> Nothing because of what we just talked
about. To me, I stay in My last book I
wrote was called Day Trading Attention.
I live in that environment. So,
if AI wasn't even happening right now,
I'd still be focused on what I'm focused
on, long-form written content, so much
more Substack, Beehiiv, LinkedIn, X,
longer form content. So, I hired two
full-time writers on my staff,
journalists, who basically will listen
to this entire interview, and he's going
to come up with 15 to 20 follow-up
questions, which is why I needed someone
who had a journalistic background.
Cuz if it was just transcribing, I can
AI that.
>> Yeah.
>> And then we will create a first-person
article about the Barbell Theory, why
analog is on the rise, right? So, a lot
more written content.
>> Interesting. And I feel like it's
becoming so much easier, because I
remember a couple of years ago, I met 4
years ago, I met someone from LinkedIn,
and they were like, you should be on
LinkedIn. I'm like, I can't write. So,
I'm so bad at that. And then ChatGPT
came around, and my LinkedIn's growing
like crazy.
>> Yeah, and I've always had ghostwriting
infrastructure for my books, cuz I've
never been able to write. And but I've
always wanted it, you know, it's funny,
every book I've written, everyone with
my written content, people come up to
me, they're like, man, it sounds so much
like you. I'm like, it is fully me, cuz
it is truly transcribed from my words. I
don't write differently than I talk,
because it's just the transcription.
But, so writing content, um I'm
incredibly focused on being, and this is
I'm pushing my team right now on this,
I'm just being remarkable on every
platform. Like, obsession
to how to win Snapchat Spotlight,
obsession to understand how to be great
at YouTube Shorts, to make sure I'm
feeding the LLMs of Gemini with my
content.
>> Why short, not long form?
>> Both. But, I think but short allows me
to pump out a lot of how to, why, right?
There's a little bit of a different
thing there. Um so, just just
hyper-fixation
on the craft of the written word, the
images,
um testing new formats.
I I call I call it PAC platforms. So, I
need to know everything that's happening
on Substack, X, Pinterest, Instagram,
TikTok, Shorts, all that. That's
algorithms within those.
What kind of content, what format, what
kind of put Is it a reel? Is it a full
Like with uh on LinkedIn, is it right
now imagery is doing incredibly well.
Video crushed last year. It's declining
a little bit this month. Like just So,
what's the algorithm within the
platforms doing? And then see culture.
Like what is happening in popular
culture across everything. Like the you
know, America has long in popular
culture fed from black culture. Now
we're seeing Hispanic culture. We're
seeing Korean culture impact so much of
US pop culture. Slang terms, quarter
zip, uh Labubu's in then out, uh the
Starbucks bear tumbler for 3 weeks, then
not. Stanley cups, then not.
>> I love your passion when you're talking
about that. It's like I see
>> Well, cuz pop cult you know, baggy baggy
pants for guys like pop culture is
relevance, right? I can make one
reference in here of something that's
happening in popular culture. And then
for somebody who's listening, if they're
also into the same thing I'm into,
immediately we are connected, right? We
are connected by being born in the same
place Like people look for we're tribal.
We love sports. Religion is because the
way it is. Cultures, we have You and I
met immediate we just from the same
place. It is what it is. But by the way,
when I walk outside right now, if
somebody's wearing a Jets hat, they're
immediately my brother.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you know, I think pop culture,
especially in B2B environments, is very
misunderstood. But even B2C
environments, the biggest consumer
brands I work with in my day-to-day, I I
think they underestimate
pop culture.
>> Yeah, even creators. Like I'm talking to
so many big brands and they they've
never advertised with creators and I'm
just surprised.
>> Let me pause here for a second because
what we've been talking about connects
directly to something my team has been
actively testing. Running a media
company, the operational load never
stops because you prep for podcast
episodes, you have to push content to
multiple platforms, and somewhere in
between a million documents landing in
your inbox waiting for your decision.
That's our day-to-day, and a few weeks
ago my team started testing something
that's been changing how we handle it.
That's Axiom work. And what I appreciate
most about it is that you can build a
full secure agent team for your
business, not just one AI. Each agent
has its own identity, intelligence,
tools, skills, and persona. You can
create as many as you need, full custom,
and they work in parallel with a
pre-built library of connectors already
set up. Gmail, Shopify, HubSpot, social
platforms, nothing to configure. And
here is what that actually looks like in
practice. So, for example, my team runs
three agents: a strategist, a producer,
a CPO. The CPO leads the agent team
keeping operations aligned and making
sure nothing falls through the cracks.
The producer works under the strategist.
Content decisions are always backed by
data before anything goes into
production. Each agent has a defined
role, a clear reporting line, and they
coordinate directly with each other
without me in the middle. You can also
set up recurring scheduled tasks, things
that run automatically every day without
anyone touching them. Set a time, set a
task, and it runs. For example, every
morning at 10:00 a.m. my CPO agent sends
the whole team a briefing with the
latest industry news. No one has to ask
for it, it just lands in the chat. Axiom
work is built by Alibaba. 26 years of
B2B infrastructure behind it. That's
what makes it different from a generic
tool. Right now, there's a limited time
offer. Two weeks of unlimited access to
top-tier models, including Claude Office
4.6. The link is in the description.
>> So, you you're saying you're not running
faster because of AI, you're just doing
whatever you're doing.
>> I'm saying that I don't have a different
social media strategy right now because
of AI per se.
If I wake up from a coma right now in 7
years and everything's different, it
will not take me long to get back on the
bike and be successful cuz I'll just
spend 100 days paying attention to where
is everyone paying attention to? Oh my
god, AI changed everything. We're back
to reading newspapers. Okay, I'm going
to make newspaper ads. Like it's not
complicated. The thesis is simple.
Understanding and how to be good at the
thesis is hard.
>> Has your hiring changed because of AI?
How many people do you have now?
>> You know, it's funny you say that. We at
Vayner So, I have many different
companies, but the biggest one I run is
VaynerX, VaynerMedia, and there there's
Chart Media, and The Tomorrows Group.
Three very large advertising agencies,
all of which do something pretty
similar.
We're exploding, and I'm having this
very, very challenging game. I mean, I
was in Seattle yesterday as you heard
before we went on here. I met with the
three biggest companies that are HQ'd
there, all of which are like, "We want
to do more with you. We want to do a lot
with you." Two that already working with
us, a third that wants to jam with us.
So, the demand of customers is
exploding.
I still need an extraordinary amount of
human beings cuz it's human-based
business. Yes, I understand that AI can
do the job of It is not lost on me that
100 people can now do the work of 400
people.
I'm just worried about the output wars
of the future. What if you're competing
with somebody that has 400 and you have
400? You cut 200 and they still have
400. And in our world, you and I we're
like, "Ah, we're outflanking them. We're
going to be better. We're going to make
more EBITDA. We're going to
But what if they weaponize those 400
people with the same tools that we
weaponize our 200 people? In my world,
advertising,
if my 400 people now make 27,000 ads
and your 200 people make 16,000 ads for
whatever human element is there, and I
understand it doesn't work that way.
But there this concept of
is AI a shield and a sword and a gun
versus rocks in a war,
right? You would think 200
will beat 400. But what if the 400 also
have shields, sword like and so there's
something here that I haven't fully
figured out.
I'm definitely being cautious. We are
definitely first and foremost attacking
things
that do not have value. For example,
if you're a project manager at
VaynerMedia
and your sole cuz you know, every
project manager comes in different
shapes and sizes. But if you're the kind
of project manager who only takes notes,
like that is how you Well, that person
has already been kind of smoked out and
asked to do more.
>> Was there something that you transformed
with AI within your team that blew your
mind? You're like, oh my god.
>> I My mind has not been blown since kind
of the, you know, I had a lot of friends
in in Silicon Valley talking that
machine learning was getting better and
better and I'm just like,
maybe I'm impressed on how fast
everything is happening.
But I'm in a point where like, yes.
>> It's normal for you now.
>> To me basically, here's where my head's
at. I'm going to take my phone and be
like, build this app. I want it to do
this. Enter done.
So if I'm already there, everything in
between is just a step to that. That's
where I think we're going.
>> Anything you transformed in your process
or you just started executing by
yourself?
I mean like building apps.
>> the biggest thing that happened to me is
I am an anthropologist pop culture
strategist. So
having that level of thinking power with
me that I used to rely on search
and like just digging around the
internet,
that was profound.
>> I feel I feel the same when I was flying
here yesterday. I was playing with
Claude skills, which is like a skill
that you can build that executes for us.
Like you It was preparing me for this
interview and I was like, this is
fascinating. I feel like I'm a
superhuman with all these tools cuz
Perplexity computer every day sends me
stocks to buy. Claude skills does my
research. It's just fascinating.
>> Yeah, but I also think it's it feels
like a superhero today the same way I
felt with the iPhone. That first year
with the iPhone. So, I bought the iPhone
the day it came out.
The especially in New York because of
Wall Street and any big city, there was
BlackBerry obsession.
And I felt like a superhero that first
year because I could go on the internet
for real, not like the way the
BlackBerry people could and that gave me
a hyper advantage.
Like I would go and do that At that
point I was already out about a little
bit. I would go and do something and I
could look something up before I like
when on stage or went into a meeting and
that was like powerful in a way that,
you know, I didn't have to do with my
laptop even though that used to have
that. It was just so fast.
You feel like a superhero with Claude
Perplexity GPT,
uh Meta's infrastructure starting to get
very impressive. To remind everybody
who's listening, your grandmother in the
office did not have internet, did not
have AI,
>> Didn't have an
>> have social media.
Didn't have an office to your point. Did
not have mobile computing, did not have
computer in office, did not have
internet, like
Yeah, I mean this is just technology.
>> But do you feel that we're in this
period of time and we are like 1% that
are grasping technology? Do we need to
run faster to make the most out of it?
Are you Well,
>> depends on the human ambition. I mean, I
think a lot of people are going to check
out of this era. Let's talk about
Silicon Valley. I have a lot of Silicon
Valley friends
who were psycho,
all in,
going so hard during early web 2, 2005,
6, 7, 8, blogging, podcasting, and then
social,
who made enough money and are in
different part of their life now, who
have given a [__] about AI and
blockchain. Who cares about
>> to build wealth. This I feel like this
is just such an opportunity and it's
unique for the next 10 years. I feel
like we have this year
and
>> And it's basic for everyone.
>> I don't think so. I think that's makes
sense that you think that and I
understand that. I think you and I will
see each other in 10 years and be like,
"Man, you were right." It's just the as
much as it looks like AI creates a
winner-takes-all world, I have a funny
feeling it's not going to.
>> Okay.
>> Because don't forget, there is the human
like there's it's going to take too much
time. Like
You know what people don't do well?
Hang with me for a second. Let's play
this game. Let's Let's take that point.
Let's say 10 companies won everything.
Do you literally think that 8 billion
people are going to be like, "Yeah,
that's awesome."?
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> And governments wouldn't, yeah.
>> So, that's that's it.
>> It's just funny to hear this from you
cuz you're the one like, "Hustle. Do
this." Like
>> People don't like to take my sentence in
its totality.
Hustle, go hard if you complain and are
a crybaby
and you don't realize that
accountability can help you.
Hustle if you like it so much that you
would do it if it was free. I would
build businesses
if it was free.
Meaning like it they made me like it's
my joy.
I build companies the way people like to
go golfing and cooking and watching
movies. It's more fun to me. You know,
it's so funny. We put on a pedestal
someone who's a philosopher or or a
great reader.
Somebody who reads books all day in
their rooms, a real thinker and writes,
"Oh wow, so noble." That's what I do.
I just do something with it.
>> Yeah.
>> On the other side. You know what I mean?
So, I think hustle if it makes you
happy,
one could argue that the extreme
opposite of hustle
is what I also do. I mean,
the more you know me,
the more you would realize I'm
incredibly detached from my career or my
or my public persona. I'll make it very
blunt. I don't give a
about Gary Vee or my Vayner Empire. I do
not think it makes me better than. Who
cares if I'm good at business? Some
people are good at skiing. Some people
are good at singing. Some people are
good at writing like it just happens to
be something I'm good at. I have my
self-worth wrapped up into who I show up
as as a human to people in my life.
That I'm a nice guy. That when I
>> Was that a switch ever in your life or
>> Absolutely not.
>> Mhm.
>> Never. It was ingrained in me by my
mother and my circumstances and my DNA.
>> What would you say to someone who's
saying their worth is tied to their
results? And that makes them very
anxious in this era.
>> Correct. Um I would tell them that First
of all, it depends on what results,
right? You know, if you're saying
financial results
>> I don't know. I'm in Silicon Valley.
>> Great.
>> Your company's valuation.
>> I would say I understand. It's a very
common human trait. I would also say
that almost everybody I know on Earth
that is wrapped up in that metrics
mindset has incredible anxiety.
And anxiety sucks.
>> How do you separate yourself from it?
But I feel like it's easier to say for
you cuz you have all of the millions
followers already and millions of
dollars.
>> You're saying that because you don't
know me. If my friends that have known
me in my whole life will tell you that I
have the millions of followers and
dollars because I've always been this
way.
>> Mhm. Even when I That's the reason. It's
not the
>> Right. My detachment because I have an
incredible relationship with losing.
>> Mhm.
>> I like it.
>> What do you tell yourself when you lose?
>> That I sucked and that was funny and
let's not try to do that again and like
what can we do Like I love the challenge
You know, I was the kid when I when I
was losing in sports or ping pong or
pool. Like I loved playing again. I
loved playing again. I loved playing
again. I didn't think me losing in front
of my sister or mom meant that I was
lesser than. I played outside of this
short-term validation framework and I
also was incredibly structured to
not struggle with peer pressure in high
school and in college when so many of my
contemporaries did everything for
validation amongst their peers, I did
not. And that was just tremendous
parenting, luck of the draw with DNA,
and the circumstances I grew up with.
>> What What are you telling your kids?
>> Well, they're not me. I'm telling I'm
trying to leave deposits on that, but
they're growing up in a very different
environment. Now, luckily,
my children
share a lot of mine and my ex-wife's
DNA.
And are also a little bit cocooned. Like
my 17-year-old daughter
does not live her life for her friends
or boys' attention.
So, she's cooking with gas. My
13-year-old son
also I he's I I I would have said 3
years ago I'm like, let's He's already
starting to
like really develop this. And so, you
know, look, DNA's a real thing. And then
when you have parents that are conscious
and are pushing you on the right things,
the only core thing they're for sure
they have different is environment. I
don't have this ideology for my children
to be exactly like me or just like me or
they need to be hungry like I was. I
want them to be happy and lack anxiety
like I was. And that comes into this,
not anything else. This.
>> Any tip how to teach that? I have a
4-year-old and a 6-year-old, and I feel
like they really rely on what other kids
think of them. What do you What do you
tell your kids?
>> that narrative into my kid verbally.
>> You just tell them like you
>> I think it's like as young as that, I
would tell my children like, people
making fun of you, people saying you're
awesome means nothing. How do you feel?
What do you like?
>> Yeah, and learning not to react to
positive things and negative.
>> The reason I can deal is
I today have 95% validation, 5%
skepticism and pushback.
It's the It's the goat emojis
in my Instagram posts that I have to not
pay attention to. Not the you suck Gary
or you got lucky or you you you know,
you're a snake oil like to me it's not
hearing the accolades. I'm telling you
that that's where the lack of anxiety
comes from. I don't need to have a house
or a plane or a third home or Nobel
Peace Prize or 40 million followers or
an exit to impress Bill Gurley. I don't
need that.
It is not what my life is about. I like
it but I feel like I'm an athlete
who wants to be great on the field but
off the field that is not the man that I
think I am.
>> I feel like everybody should learn this
type of mindset especially now cuz also
I have this question from my team who
read your piece AI splits people into
architects and masons.
>> Yes.
>> And half of my team thinks they're
masons.
>> But they have the ability to become an
architect.
>> So how do you deploy that mindset when
you know you're losing right now cuz AI
is replacing you?
But how do you go to the next step of
your career utilizing this mindset that
I don't need external approval and this
mistake of failure isn't me?
>> How do you lose 25 lb when you know
you're not feeling great?
I'm asking you.
>> Well, it's either or. You die sooner
than if you don't.
>> Yeah, there's that outcome but how do
you do it?
I'm not saying what the outcome is and
you're right about that.
>> I don't know I'm I don't have this
problem so I can't relate. My husband
has this problem loves sugar.
>> Yeah, me too.
>> So yeah, he just feels worse and for him
it's say it's stopping sugar completely
that will work like completely.
>> But but it's hard.
>> It is.
>> Like I go through patches where I also
cut it out. I so I'm your husband. I
have the same issue. Sugar is the real
bane of my existence.
To me, let me tell you how I stopped
drinking soda for every beverage
13 years ago.
I also I hired a full-time person to
literally 12 years ago. There would have
been a man in here right now to make
sure I didn't take a sip of Really? For
1 year
I took an extreme measure of babysitting
to get me into the discipline. He
suffocated me to then get into patterns
to get into the discipline and then it
became my norm.
If you are a mason and you want to
become an architect, you can cry about
it. You can stop and start. We all stop
and start in health and wellness and
work and
but you need to for it to become your
actual pattern. It becomes your norm. To
your point, sometimes it's cold but it
starts here first.
Like what I would if I had that whole
team right now I'd be like, "Listen, you
can do it."
You have to believe that. If you don't,
it's what are we going to do? Like it
first starts mentally and then it starts
physically. Like you need to start using
these tools
to help you think better, to put in the
work. You need to start reading. You
need to start doing this. You need to
start hanging out with these people.
Like you need to start taking from your
leisure
>> Yeah.
>> which you're using to get a escape from
your concern and you need to allocate
some of your leisure time into more
work. You have to go to the gym and eat
better. That starts with your mind but
then it has to happen with your actions.
And then you just have to stay into that
conversation. Like this is staying in a
conversation. The reason the world is so
tight right now is we've stayed in the
negative conversation for 10 years.
But like my news feed is not politics.
My news feed is not telling me that the
world is going to
My news feed doesn't tell me that my
parents had it better than me.
Like you're in control of your
algorithm. You're in control of the
people that you spend time with.
Look at all the people that are
listening to this right now. These
people chose to follow you and listen to
you. Some are here because this is the
first time they're listening to you
because they follow me.
Knowing enough of your platform and
definitely knowing my platform, these
are people that are choosing offense.
These are people that are choosing
optimism. These are people that are
choosing to try to figure it out.
That same person could have a twin
sibling who right now we're on a This is
a Saturday morning that you and I are
filming this.
Who might be watching Netflix to this
morning, which is lovely and you should
have leisure, but why are they watching
it? Are they watching it because
they they have a little side dish of
leisure and enjoyment? That's beautiful.
But if it's their main course and
they're doing it because they had an
anxious week and they're devastated they
have to go back Monday, now I'm
concerned. Does that make sense?
>> Totally.
>> Like to me leisure and escapism needs to
be side dishes and amuse-bouches, not
the main meal.
>> Yeah.
>> When it's the main meal, you are
escaping your actual life that isn't
going well.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's what I think.
>> Gary just told me that AI is splitting
people into architects who build things
and masons who do things. And most
people don't even know which side
they're on yet. Futureproof is my weekly
newsletter where I break down exactly
what architects are doing right now that
masons aren't. The tools, the moves, the
mindset shifts. Link is in the
description. Please subscribe. It's
absolutely free and I talk about a lot
of practical things there.
>> Let's talk about people who watching who
are immigrants because they have a lot
of immigrants watching. You came to
America at age three. I came when I was
25. For someone who arrives today, what
is the first thing they should be doing?
>> I think it's a framework It's funny we
used curiosity. I think it's a framework
of self-awareness,
humility,
and curiosity. So self-awareness is If
you come from Guatemala, Poland, you
know, South Korea and you're here in the
US or you're or by the way,
you're an American who's deciding like,
"Ah, I don't you know, what one of those
people." which you're allowed, and
you're moving to Sweden or you're going
from India to England or England to
Argentina. No matter what shift you're
making.
A lot of people listening here will move
to other countries because of jobs.
Their wife got a is their wife's the big
executive, they're the entrepreneur, and
she just got a big job, and now you're
moving to Portugal.
When you are new in an entirely new
country, immigrant,
I think there's three things to rely on.
Number one is self-awareness. Who are
you? Right? When I came over,
you know, the I was a kid, but the older
generation, these people were engineers
in the Soviet Union, and they were
literally cleaning toilets.
>> Yeah.
>> That was the second part, humility.
You know, humility is a superpower.
You know, I'm aware that my humility
does not show up on the internet cuz
that is not the way I communicate, but I
will tell you that in my real life
behind the scenes, it is one of the
beacons of my success.
I've never gotten away from the kid that
immigrated. Like, with all the stuff on
paper, I still don't think I'm better
than. I don't think I am I have earned
the ability to not put in the work or to
be gracious or to be kind or whatever it
might be. So, I would say
self-awareness. Who are you? What are
you good at? You have to then see if
that's available to you in the country.
Sometimes it is, sometimes it's not.
Nuclear engineers from the Soviet Empire
literally had to clean, you know,
toilets because America wasn't just
giving them jobs. And then they had to
build themselves up, and they owned a
pharmacy later on. You know how it all
worked out, right? Humility. I know that
you were the big dog in India, but maybe
here in Poland that doesn't work. Or you
were amazing, you were a good creator in
America, but now for some reason you
live in Indonesia, and you don't have
that many followers in Indonesia.
Humility, right? And then back to
curiosity. For me, I would just if
again, face got ripped off like that
John Travolta uh
uh
John Travolta Nicholas Cage movie,
reputation lost, I find myself in Peru.
This is where I'm going. Who am I? I
have good people skills, I have I have
work ethic, I know how to buy and sell,
I know consumer behavior. Next.
Humility. I'll go work at a store
as a cashier. If I have nothing If I
have nothing and then curiosity. At
night after I get back from the the
store,
what's going on here in Peru?
Like where's my angle? What can I do?
What can I sell? So that is my advice.
That emotional framework and then you
have to act on it. Ego is just pure
insecurity.
>> Yeah.
>> Ego is just pure insecurity.
Posturing, trying to be the big dog,
that just means you're scared. That
means you're
>> And that places limits on what you're
doing cuz you're trying to feed your ego
versus build something.
>> just you you are not good internally,
thus you must render your peacocking to
trick everyone around you.
>> Yeah.
>> I And by the way, I'm not mad at Do you
know that I'm not mad at people that are
like that? I'm sad about it.
>> Yeah.
>> I wish they could like themselves for
all I Do you know how many shortcomings
I have?
Plenty. We all do.
>> Yeah.
Okay, if someone's watching right now
and they're like, okay, I'm going to
work on all of this, but I really want
to build in this AI era. What do you
think is the biggest opportunity right
now?
>> It goes back to the last question.
There's a million of them.
I just don't know the person that's
listening right now. For example, if
you're overly charismatic, the biggest
opportunity is to go live streaming on
the internet and then drive all of that
audience to an AI app that you built
that's 10 bucks.
>> But for it's automated by AI cuz have
you seen in China how they are doing
this live? They they just basically put
an item in front of the camera and it's
automated and there is this AI person
already wearing it or showing it. It was
crazy.
>> Include including the influencers AI.
>> Yeah.
>> It's It's me and I put your face on me
and I'm a woman selling makeup. I mean
>> But how like when I think about this,
like why would I start if it's already
being automated?
>> Because everything you learn along the
way will set up your next thing. What
are you going to do? Lay down and cry?
>> I don't know. Find something else.
Because I'm talking to a lot of
entrepreneurs. They're in the stage
they're like, "Oh, I really want to do
this, but then yeah, it's just going to
be taken away by a big company in
>> You're too You're too young for this,
but in 2005, 6, 7, 8, 9 in Silicon
Valley, the same thing was being said.
Why would I start this? Google's going
to copy it.
>> Mhm.
>> You're just You're just talking to fake
entrepreneurs.
>> Okay.
>> Real entrepreneurs
are willing to lose.
Real entrepreneurs know that the 2 years
they work on something that clawed up
was 2 years of them working on something
that sets up their next thing.
Real entrepreneurs don't know
how to do anything else.
>> Yeah.
>> Real entrepreneurs don't lay down and
cry. Real entrepreneurs don't say, "I'll
just go get a job." Real entrepreneurs
are real entrepreneurs.
>> Yeah, that goes back to knowing who you
are. You know what your passion is.
>> Correct. And by the way, let me say
something right now. This is actually a
beautiful segway. I need everybody to
hear this.
If you're listening right now, and you
think you're an entrepreneur, but these
last 3 minutes of this talk are
triggering some weird feelings,
do you know how awesome it was to be the
number seven at Facebook?
Do you know how incredible it was to be
the number nine at Tesla? Do you know
how epic it is to be number 34 at
LinkedIn, Microsoft? I mean, like
>> How cool it is to be a podcaster?
>> Correct. Like this concept that like
again, I grew up entrepreneurship wasn't
even a word, being a businessman was not
cool, and then I ironically was part of
the movement that kind of made this
thing cool, but I have been talking for
10 years of like, "Please, it's only
cool if you are that." It's cool It's
not cool to be a teacher if you're not a
teacher. It's not cool to be, you know,
It's not cool to be anything if you're
not actually, you know.
>> Yeah.
That is a good ending. And I have a few
questions that are fire starters.
>> Rapid.
>> What are your top three favorite AI
tools that you use daily?
>> GPT, Claude, and honestly, the Mangus is
really in the last like like is really
Yeah, Meta's met like I'm I'm like just
a couple weeks going in, but it's
>> Do you use it for your Instagram?
>> Yeah.
>> I feel like they have access to all the
data, so they can do better analytics
than anyone.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. That's that's a good one to work
on. What's your favorite prompt?
>> My favorite prompt is me intuitively
feeling something that's happening in
culture.
Right. Uh I'll give you one right now.
Does the baggy pants
movement for men have another
domino to fall?
Like I will
>> That's a very advanced prompt. So, you
know exactly what's happening and you're
trying to predict what's next.
>> Correct. That is almost that almost
almost everything I'm doing is that.
For me, for what I like to do in my
professionally and personally.
>> Okay. College degrees in 2026, yes or
no?
>> For 50% of the people that are listening
right now, yes. They need that degree to
do the profession legally, in medicine,
for the most creative and
entrepreneurial people, yes, if mommy
and daddy paid for it, because 18 to 22
as a full pledge vacation to hang out
with other 18 to 22-year-olds is a lot
of fun, and you will work your whole
life.
No for 18 to 22-year-olds that are
taking on substantial debt who are
creative and entrepreneurial.
>> Yeah, makes sense. One industry to stay
away from?
>> None. Everything's in play I mean, I'm I
mean, look.
Betting your whole life to be an admin
who doesn't think.
An admin that's a mason, not an admin
that's architect, bad. Admin that's
architect, huge. I'm going to hire
people that have the power of 13 13
admins for me, and she or he is going to
sit at the top of that, and I'm going to
pay that person a
fortune to make my life effective.
>> Yeah. And the last one, what's the most
misunderstood thing about AI right now?
>> The counter to whatever anybody's
thinking.
So, for the people that are delusionally
thinking this is the greatest thing
ever,
the counter of the negatives that are
going to happen.
And for the people that think everyone's
in China and
a perplexity and anthropic and America
and Russia, there's going to be nine
countries and nine companies and
everybody else is
out of their minds.
The counter to each extremism of what
people think.
>> Thank you for your positivity and
energy.
>> You're welcome.
>> It's really charging, right? What you're
saying gives energy to create versus
like
>> Just lie down.
>> And I think I think that sits I Thank
you, and I want to end with this. That
that doesn't sit in some blind optimism
or or even the great parenting that I
was given. It sits in historics.
It is historically true that we were
scared of electricity and it wasn't. We
were historically true to get off the
farms, we did so much more. It's Humans
are great.
I know we're told that we're not, but
99.999%
of us are, either neutral or great.
And if it And if I am wrong,
here's why I'm this way. And if I'm
wrong,
I promise you're not going to worry
about your job.
If I'm wrong, we're all dead anyway.
So, either I'm right that you should
choose practical optimism and there's
going to be a million opportunities for
you if you go insular and work on you.
>> Yeah.
>> Or if unfortunately I'm wrong,
>> Then who cares?
>> I'll see you in heaven.
Like you know,
you know like this I mean I don't get
it. It's not practical to be pessimistic
and cynical. It is not practical.
>> Yeah. You heard Bill Gurley's name
enough times today that I think you know
what's coming. In our conversation, Bill
shared a mindset shift that's worth
every minute of your time. I put the
video right here on the screen and let
me know in the comments if you came from
this episode with Gary.